Title: Rule-based Document Structure Understanding with a Fuzzy Combination of Layout and Textual Features

Authors: Stefan Klink, Thomas Kieninger

SK: Stefan Klink, and Thomas Kieninger. "Rule-based document structure understanding with a fuzzy combination of layout and textual features." International Journal on Document Analysis and Recognition 4.1 (2001): 18-26.

Few sentences:
We can generate features based on one speciifc layout object as well as from dependencies between different layout objects. We can also
generate features by considering domain specific logical layout objects. 
They did their experiments on Scanned documents and used a commercial OCR system.  


Summery:
A document has two types of structures and these are layout and logical structure. They divided the recognition of the document structure
into two different phases of processing: first, all common document structures like headings, footnotes, lists and tables are recognized 
and second, all domain dependent logical elements are recognized using the appropriate rule base.

The document header is recognized based on an assumption that it starts at top and grows untill it has too big gap from next line of the 
text.

They only recognized simple flat lists. They didn't consider recursive lists. They recognized enumerated, bulleted and dashed lists. 

They used T-Recs system [2] to recognize tables. 

They have rules for logical labeling. A rule unit is divided into two parts which themselves define self-related [morphological features]
and a list of cross-related attributes [he geometrical, the textual and the label part] to express relations between the actually
inspected block and several other blocks.

Their experiments are on business letters (1~2 pages, very well structured), University of Washington Journal corpus (Regular research 
papers, usally 5~10 pages). For the U0wash journal dataset, they had lot of difficulties such as block overleap. They only consider
footnote, abstract, text-body and biography. Their precision reaches just 36%. 


Knowledge from this paper:
We can consider the position of each block. For example, a list item will be under the list header. Table content shloud be under the 
table header. We can find out more relations from the layout. 





Connected papers: 
1. Tsujimoto, Shuichi, and Haruo Asada. "Understanding multi-articled documents." Pattern Recognition, 1990. Proceedings., 
   10th International Conference on. Vol. 1. IEEE, 1990.
2. T. Kieninger: "Table structure recognition based on robust block segmentation". In Proceedings of IS&T/SPIE’s 10th Annual Symposium
   Electronic Imaging ’98: Science & Technology -Document Recognition V, San Jose, California, USA, 24-30 January 1998
3.    


